.\" Manpage for Plugin_scibfabric2
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "13 Sep 2017" "v3.5" "LDMS Plugin scibfabric2 man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_scibfabric2 - man page for the LDMS scibfabric2 plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.br
config name=scibfabric2 [ <attr>=<value> ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
With LDMS (Lightweight Distributed Metric Service), plugins for the ldmsd (ldms daemon) are configured via ldmsd_controller
or a configuration file. The scibfabric2 plugin provides port info from InfiniBand equipment.

.SH CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX

.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> producer=<pname> instance=<instance> ca_name=<ca> ca_port=<port> (portfile=<portfile> | servername=<servername> serverport=<port> ) [schema=<sname>] [component_id=<compid>] [timing=<0/1/2>] [nodenamemap=<ibmap>] 
.br
configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be scibfabric2.
.TP
producer=<pname>
.br
The producer string value.
.TP
instance=<set_name>
.br
The name of the metric set.
.TP
portfile=<portfile>
.br
The name of a file of LID/port specifications. See PORT FILE for format details.
.TP
servername=<servername> serverport=<port>
.br
The name and port of a delegation server that will provide the list of
LIDs/ports to be measured. See ldms_ib_delegator(8) for details.
.TP
schema=<schema>
.br
Optional schema name. It is intended that the same sampler on different nodes with different metrics have a
different schema. If not specified, it will default to `scibfabric2` and mismatches may cause bad storage plugin behavior.
.TP
component_id=<compid>
.br
Optional component identifier. Defaults to zero.
.TP
ca_name=<ca>
.br
The name of the host's IB interface to use for transmitting queries.
.TP
ca_port=<port>
.br
The port number to use, which must be active.
.TP
timing=<T>
.br
Disable timing (T=0), enable aggregate timing (T=1), or emable individual port timing(T=2).
The metric set will contain sampling process timing metrics if T > 0. Timing should not be used in production deployments.
.TP
nodenamemap=<ibmap>
.br
The file name, as used by ibnetdiscover and opensm, of a mapping from IB GUIDs to short names of IB hardware items (switch, node, etc) suitable for use in composing metric names.
.RE

.SH PORT FILE
The port file format will probably be lines something like:
.nf
sampler_host_name lid.[portrange] lid.[portrange]
.fi
until such time as we have nodenamemap. The portrange will be an integer expression
in the style 1,5,7-9,13, without repeats, whitespace, reversed ranges, or overlapping ranges.
When there is nodenamemap support, lid may be a short string equivalent to a GUID as mapped.
Until then, LID is an integer in the range 0-65535.

.SH BUGS
The nodenamemap option is not yet supported.
The portfile option is not yet supported.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.nf
load name=scibfabric2
config name=scibfabric2 producer=compute1 instance=compute1/scibfabric2 component_id=1
start name=scibfabric2 interval=1000000
.fi

.SH NOTES

.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7), ldmsd_controller(8), ldms_ib_delegator(8)
