.\" Manpage for netlink-notifier ldms-netlink-notifier
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 8 "25 June 2021" "v4.3" "netlink-notifier man page"

.SH NAME
ldms-netlink-notifier  \- Transmit Linux kernel netlink process life messages to ldmsd streams.

.SH SYNOPSIS
ldms-netlink-notifier [OPTION...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The netlink-notifier generates JSON message for ldmsd and JSON aware LDMS samplers.
Its messages are mostly compatible with those from the slurm spank based notifier.

.SH OPTIONS
.nf
-c	use task comm field for process name.
-d	strip off directory path from process name.
-D	specify run duration in seconds. If unspecified, run forever.
-e	select which events to monitor.
-E	equivalent to -e all.
-g	show glyphs for event types in debug mode.
-h	show this help.
-i seconds	 time (float) to sleep between checks for processes exceeding the short dir filter time.
		 If the -i value > the -m value, -i may effectively filter out additional processes.
-j file	 file to log json messages and transmission status.
-l	force stdout line buffering.
-r	run with real time FIFO scheduler.
-s	show short process name in debugging.
-t	show debugging trace messages.
-u umin	ignore processes with uid < umin
-q	run quietly
-x	show extra process information.
-X	equivalent to -Egrx.
The ldmsd connection and commonly uninteresting or short-lived processes may be specified with the options or environment variables below.
The 'short' options do not override the exclude entirely options.
--exclude-programs[=]<path>	 change the default value of exclude-programs
	 When repeated, all values are concatenated.
	 If given with no value, the default (nullexe):<unknown> is removed.
	 If not given, the default is used unless
	 the environment variable NOTIFIER_EXCLUDE_PROGRAMS is set.
--exclude-dir-path[=]<path>	 change the default value of exclude-dir-path
	 When repeated, all values are concatenated.
	 If given with no value, the default /sbin is removed.
	 If not given, the default is used unless
	 the environment variable NOTIFIER_EXCLUDE_DIR_PATH is set.
--exclude-short-path[=]<path>	 change the default value of exclude-short-path
	 When repeated, all values are concatenated.
	 If given with no value, the default /bin:/usr is removed.
	 If not given, the default is used unless
	 the environment variable NOTIFIER_EXCLUDE_SHORT_PATH is set.
--exclude-short-time[=][val]	 change the default value of exclude-short-time.
	 If repeated, the last value given wins.
	 If given with no value, the default 1 becomes 0 unless
	 the environment variable NOTIFIER_EXCLUDE_SHORT_TIME is set.
--stream[=]<val>	 change the default value of stream.
	 If repeated, the last value given wins.
	 The default slurm is used if env NOTIFIER_LDMS_STREAM is not set.
--xprt[=]<val>	 change the default value of xprt.
	 If repeated, the last value given wins.
	 The default sock is used if env NOTIFIER_LDMS_XPRT is not set.
--host[=]<val>	 change the default value of host.
	 If repeated, the last value given wins.
	 The default localhost is used if env NOTIFIER_LDMS_HOST is not set.
--port[=]<val>	 change the default value of port.
	 If repeated, the last value given wins.
	 The default 411 is used if env NOTIFIER_LDMS_PORT is not set.
--auth[=]<val>	 change the default value of auth.
	 If repeated, the last value given wins.
	 The default munge is used if env NOTIFIER_LDMS_AUTH is not set.
--retry[=]<val>	 change the default value of retry.
	 If repeated, the last value given wins.
	 The default 600 is used if env NOTIFIER_LDMS_RETRY is not set.
--timeout[=]<val>	 change the default value of timeout.
	 If repeated, the last value given wins.
	 The default 1 is used if env NOTIFIER_LDMS_TIMEOUT is not set.
.fi

.SH NOTES
The core of this utility is derived from forkstat(8).

Options are still in development. Several options affect only the trace output.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Run for 30 seconds with screen and json.log test output connecting to the ldmsd from 'ldms-static-test.sh blobwriter' test:
.nf
netlink-notifier -t -D 30 -g -u 1 -x  -e exec,clone,exit -r  \\
	-j json.log --exclude-dir-path=/bin:/sbin:/usr \\
	--port=61061 --auth=none --retry=1"
.fi
.PP
Run in a typical deployment (sock, munge, port 411, localhost, forever, 10 minute retry):
.nf
netlink-notifier
.fi


.SH SEE ALSO
forkstat(8), ldmsd(8), ldms-static-test(8)
